---
title: Uploading Assets
description: A guide to uploading assets for Adobe Substance 3D APIs.
hideBreadcrumbNav: true
contributors:
  - https://github.com/AEAbreu-hub
---

# Uploading Assets

Learn how assets are uploaded and accessed by Substance 3D APIs.

## Overview

Substance 3D APIs require assets like 3D models, scenes, and other materials. Assets must be uploaded and then the sources for those assets are specified in `sources` in the API request body.

Options for defining a source for asset files are:

- **Use a Space**: Substance 3D API offers an endpoint to upload locally stored assets to a digital container called a Space.
- **Use URLs**: Use public URLs from services like GitHub or Adobe.
- **Use Frame.io**: Frame.io folders can provide access to multiple files.

This page describes the advantages and details for each of these source types.

## Using Spaces

A **Space** is a virtual container for managing assets.
Several file entries can be defined in a single Space, and you can reuse an output Space containing the files generated by a previously executed job.

To create a Space:

- Upload local assets [using the API endpoint for creating a Space][1]. This operation generates a **Space ID** to use in other Substance 3D API calls.
- Execute a job that requires merging assets from different sources.

To use a Space as a source, define it with its ID:

```json
{
  "space": {
    "id": "s-example-6ba8-4ca6-842d-898057bf5dbc"
  }
}
```

### Structure and lifecycle

Consider a Space as a file system, with a root directory and subdirectories.
The Substance 3D API backend works with Spaces to both retrieve input assets and store generated resources.

A Space is an immutable and temporary storage that **expires after 6 hours**.
For each asset file in the Space, a pre-signed URL is generated where the results of the job can be downloaded for a limited time.

A pre-signed URL **expires after 30 minutes**. A new pre-signed URL can be obtained by calling the Space endpoint again.

By default, only the owner of a Space has permission to access it.

### Space response

After a successful file upload, the response contains details for the newly created Space:

- `id`: A unique Space identifier. This is the ID used to reference the Space in API calls.
- `url`: The URL of the Space.
- `archiveUrl`: The URL of the archive containing all files from the Space.
- `files`: An array of all asset files available in the Space.

```json
{
  "id": "s-b93fa62b-6ba8-4ca6-842d-898057bf5dbc",
  "url": "https://s3d.adobe.io/v1/spaces/s-b93fa62b-6ba8-4ca6-842d-898057bf5dbc",
  "archiveUrl": "https://s3d.adobe.io/v1/presigned-spaces/s-b93fa62b-6ba8-4ca6-842d-898057bf5dbc/zip?x-s3d-presigned-token=<auto_generated_token>",
  "files": [
    {
      "name": "WaterBottle.glb",
      "size": 8961340,
      "url": "https://s3d.adobe.io/v1/presigned-spaces/s-b93fa62b-6ba8-4ca6-842d-898057bf5dbc/files/WaterBottle.glb?x-s3d-presigned-token=<auto_generated_token>"
    }
  ]
}
```

## Using URLs

Assets can be retrieved from remote storage, like GitHub or a CDN, by using a URL.
Each URL must point to a single resource.

<InlineAlert variant="warning" slots="text" />

Directories or archives ARE NOT supported.

Only these domains are supported:

 - `adobe.com`
 - `adobe.io`
 - `adobesensei.io`
 - `amazonaws.com`
 - `frame.io`
 - `github.com`
 - `githubusercontent.com`
 - `googleapis.com`
 - `substance3d.com`
 - `substance3d.io`
 - `windows.net`
 - `zapier.com`

To use a URL as a source, see this example to retrieve a 3D model from GitHub:

```json
{
  "url": {
    "url": "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/KhronosGroup/glTF-Sample-Models/master/2.0/WaterBottle/glTF-Binary/WaterBottle.glb"
  }
}
```

## Using Frame.io

A Frame.io source can define several file entries from a [Frame.io][2] folder.
All files present in the Frame.io folder are available for the job to process.

<InlineAlert variant="warning" slots="text" />

A Frame.io **access token** is required.

```json
{
  "frame.io": {
    "folderId": "97ea16ad-1cf6-46c0-8982-ffbd4e2afc27",
    "accessToken": "<FRAME_IO_ACCESS_TOKEN>"
  }
}
```

## Using multiple sources

With multiple sources specified in a job definition, all assets are retrieved and then merged into [a new Space](#using-spaces).

In this case, it can be handy to define the source **mount point** to preserve a specific file hierarchy and
avoid file conflicts (for example, two different sources containing files with the same name).

### Mount points

As an example, say we want to run a [3D Render job][3] using assets from two different locations: a 3D model stored on a CDN, and textures files stored in a Frame.io folder. The 3D model is configured to load the textures files from a `textures` directory.

In that case, we can define the different sources' `mountPoint` to indicate that these assets need to be in a specific folder:

```json
{
  "sources": [
    {
      "mountPoint": "/", // destination folder
      "url": { // location of the 3D model file
        "url": "https://<a-cdn-url>/3dmodel.glb"
      },
    },
    {
      "mountPoint": "/textures", // destination folder
      "frame.io": { // location of the texture files (e.g., texture.png)
        "folderId": "408ee4ee-9204-4fc2-987b-2077e4ae30e0",
        "accessToken": "<frameio-access-token>"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

These assets will be merged to create a Space with the following structure:

```txt
├── textures
│  └── texture.png
└── 3dmodel.glb
```

<!-- Links -->
[1]: ../../guides/create_a_space/index.md
[2]: https://frame.io
[3]: ../../guides/render_3d_object/index.md
